**Chapter 1
1. What is a point-to-point link? 
	A link that goes from point a to point b
2. What is a multiple-access link? How does it differ from a point-to-point link? 
	A multiple access link is a link where more than two nodes share a
	phyiscal link They are limited in size, cannot support a large number
	of nodes 
3. What are the two most common types of switched networks? 
	*two or more nodes connected by a link
	*two or more networks connected by two or more nodes
4. Distinguish between a circuit-switched network and a packet-switched network. 
	*Circuit-switched network is a dedicated circuit established across a
	 sequence of links
	*Packet-switched network uses a store and forward method. Packets going
	 from point a to point b can take many different paths.
5. What is a packet? What is a message? 
	A discrete block of data. 
6. Discuss unicast, multicast, and broadcast addressing schemes. 
	Unicast means a single destination node. 
	Multicast sends a message to a subset of nodes
	Broadcast is a message to all nodes on the network
7. What is multiplexing? 
	A system resource is shared among multiple users
8. Distinguish
	Synchronous time division multiplexing, 
		divide time into equal-sized quanta and, in a round-robin
		fashion, give each flow a chance to send its data over the
		physical link
       	Frequency division multiplexing, and  
		transmit each flow over the physical link at a different
		frequency, much the same way that signals for different TV
		stations are transmitted at a different frequency on a physical
		cable TV link.
	Statistical multiplexing
		much like STDM, however, data is transmitted from each flow on
		demand rather than during a predetermined time slot. 
9. What do we mean by congestion? Where and in which situation does it occurs? 
	Congestion occurs when a switch is receiving packets faster than it can
	send them for an extended period of time, runs out of buffer space, and
	starts dropping packets.
10. Give at least two examples on “Request/Reply” type applications and one example on “Message Stream” type applications. 
	Request/Reply
		file transfer
		digital library applications
	Message Stream
		Video-on-demand
11. What are the three general classes of failure related to data communications? 
	bit errors (1 turned into a 0)
	packet - (packet is dropped b/c of an uncorrectable bit error)
	node and link level - (a physical link is cut or computer connected crashes)
12. Define: 
	bandwidth - given by the number of bitst aht can be transmitted over the network
		in a certain period of time
	latency - how long it takes a message to travel from one end of a network to the other
	roundtrip time - how long it takes a message to travel from one end of a network to the other and back
	propagation delay - specific amount of time it takes a signal to propagate from one end of a link to another.
	packet transmission time -
	throughput  -
13. Distinguish between “transfer time” and “transmission time”. 
14. What are the seven layers of the OSI network architecture? 
	Application
	Presentation
	Session
	Transport
	Network
	Data Link
	Physical
15. What are the four layers of the Internet architecture? 
	Application
	TCP/UDP
	IP
	Network
16. What each of the following acronyms stands for?
	TCP/IP, Transmission control protocol and internet protocol
       	IP, internet protocol
       	FTP, file transfer protocol
       	HTTP, hyper text transfer protocol
       	UDP, user datagram protocol
       	SMTP, simple mail transfer protocol
       	FDDI, fiber distributed data interface
       	FDM, frequency division multiplexing
       	LAN, local area network
       	WAN , wide area network
17. What is a protocol? 
	abstract objects that make up the layers of a network system
18. Explain the significance of “delay × bandwidth” product. 
	it gives the maximum number of bits that could be in transit through the pipe at any given instant
19. What is a router? 
	What does it do? A router is a node that is connected to two or more networks and forwards messages from one network to another.
20. What is an internet?
	a set of independent networks are interconnected 

**Chapter 2
Hardware Building Blocks
1. What is a node? Give some examples of nodes. 
	Often general-purpose computers, desktop workstations, a multiprocessor, or a PC
2. What is a link? Give some examples of links. 
	A physical medium that is used to propagate signals (electromagnetic waves traveling at the speed
	of light). E.g. twisted pair, coaxial, optical fiber, and space
3. What is a network adaptor? What is its primary function? 
	A bus interface that understands how to communicate with the host and a
	link interface that understands how to use the link. While there is also
	a communication path between these two components, over which incoming and outgoing data is passed
4. In which situation, a leased line will be a suitable solution (cost-effective) to connect networks? 
	When you have two nodes that you want to connect over a long distance,
	like a town or the country.
5. What common services are available to connect your home computers? 
	
6. The data transmission rate over an ADSL link is not guaranteed or fixed. Why? 
	B/c it is an existing phone line
7. Why ADSL is called as Asymmetric DSL? 
	Because it has a faster up speed then down
8. Give some examples of radiated media?
	Microwaves, radio, infrared, 

Encoding
1. What are the problems associated with the NRZ encoding scheme? 
	Baseline wander - consecutive 1's or 0's affects the average of the
	signal, this makes it hard for the receiver to differentiate between 1's
	and 0's
2. In what respect, NRZI is better than NRZ? 
	You only change the signal when it is a one. This solves the problem of
	consecutive ones.
3. In what respects, the Manchester encoding is better than NRZ or NRZI? 
	Transmit a XOR of the NRZ encoded data and the clock. It detects the
	change in voltage and assigns a 1 or zero based on the direction the
	voltage changes. low to high is 0 
4. Why the Manchester encoding is inefficient? What is its efficiency?
	Because the bit rate is half of the baud rate. The baud rate is the rate
	at which the signal changes.

Framing
1. Which networking device carries out the job of frame transmission? 
	Network adaptor
2. Explain the technique of character stuffing. What character is used for character stuffing? 
	Character stuffing is used to distinguish between the bit sequence that
	denotes the beginning and the end of a frame in the HDLC protocol. 
3. What bit sequence is used to denote the beginning and the end of frame in HDLC protocol? 
	01111110
4. Explain the technique of bit stuffing in the context of HDLC protocol?
	After a sequence of 5 1's has been transmitted the sender will insert a
	0 before transmitting the next bit. On the receiving side, should 5
	consecutive ones arrive the receiver makes a decision based on the next
	bit that it receives. If it's a 0 then it is a stuffed bit and it is
	discarded. If it is a 1 then one of two things is true. Either there is
	an error and the frame is discarded or this is the end of the frame. It
	looks at the next bit to make this decision. If it's a 1 it's an error
	otherwise it's the end of frame marker.

Error Detection
1. What kind of arithmetic is used in the Internet checksum algorithm? 
	Addition and ones complement
2. What is the size of the checksum in the Internet checksum algorithm? 
	16 bits	
3. What the word CRC stands for? Explain the CRC algorithm in general terms. 
	cyclic redundancy check - the crc algorithm can detect bit errors in
	messages that are thousands of bytes long b/c it uses finite fields. 
4. If there are n bits in the CRC divisor bit sequence, then how many bits will be in a corresponding CRC code?

Reliable Transmission
1. Explain the stop-and-wait ARQ algorithm. What is its primary advantage? 
	After transmitting one frame the sender waits for acknowledgement before
	transmitting the next one. If there is no acknowledgement after a
	certain period of time then the sender times out and retransmits the
	original frame.
2. Why the stop-and-wait algorithm is not good for data delivery over a long link? 
	B/c the sender may not receive an acknowledgement from the receiver
	before the sender times out. The sender may retransmit the frame and the
	receiver would receive duplicate copies. This would cause a problem if
	this happened multiple times.
3. How does the sliding window algorithm improve utilization of a link over the stop- and-wait algorithm? 
	The sliding window sends a certain number of packets at a time. Once the
	package is acknowledge it sends another one. This is better than waiting
	for one acknowledgement per packet before sending the next one.
4. What happens if the receiving window size is smaller than the sending window size?
	???

Ethernet
1. What CSMA/CD stands for? 
	Carrier Sense Multiple Access/ Collision Detection
2. What is the meaning of Carrier Sense? Multiple Access? Collision Detection? 
	*Carrier sense means that all the nodes can distinguish between an idle
	 and busy link
	*Multiple access means that a set of nodes send and receive frames over
	 a shared link
	*Collision detect means that a node listens as it transmits and can
	 therefore detect when a frame it is transmitting has interfered with a
	 frame transmitted by another node.
3. Who first developed the Ethernet technology? 
	Xerox Palo Alto Research Center
4. What is the IEEE standard for Ethernet? 
	802.3
5. What is the data transmission rate of a typical Ethernet? Fast Ethernet? Gigabit Ethernet? 
	10-Mbps, 100-Mbps, 1,000-Mbps
6. How many repeaters at most can be used to extend an Ethernet implemented with coaxial cable? 
	4
7. What is the maximum allowable length of an Ethernet segment implemented using 10Base5 cable? 
	500 meters
8. With which type of medium, hubs are used to build Ethernet? What is the technical name of the medium? 
	10baseT, Twitsted pair
9. Explain the role of a hub on an Ethernet. 
	Multiway repeater
10. How many bits are in an Ethernet address? 
	48 bits, 6 bytes
11. What happens to an Ethernet frame that contains all 1’s in its destination address field? 
	Treated as a broadcast
12. How many bits are in a jamming sequence?
	32 bits
13. What is the minimum size of an Ethernet frame format? 
	46 byes
14. What is the maximum size of an Ethernet frame format? 
	1500 bytes
15. What is the maximum limit on the number of hosts on Ethernet? 
	1024
16. “Ethernets perform well under lightly loaded condition.” Explain.
	A heavy load causes too many collisions

Token rings
1. Who first developed the token ring technology? 
	IBM
2. What is the corresponding IEEE standard for token rings? 
	802.5
3. What is a token? What is its role on a ring network? 
	A sequence of bits that circulates around the ring. It determines who is
	allowed to send data
4. Explain the mechanism of frame transmission on a token ring. 
	The node that will receive the token next takes it off of the ring.
	Inserts it's packets. All of the following nodes that receive the packet
	forward it. The receiver takes a copy of the message. Then continues
	forwarding it. The sender waits to receive the message back then strips
	it off the ring and forwards the token.
5. Under normal operating condition, which station removes a circulating data frame? 
	The sender
6. How the sender knows whether the receiver accepted the transmitted frame or not? 
	
7. What is the use of multistation access units (MSAU) in an IBM token ring network? 
8. What is the limit on the number of hosts set by IEEE 802.5 standard? 
9. How many bits are in the IEEE 802.5 token? 
11. Explain the operation of “token seizing” by a station. 
12. Distinguish between “early release” and “delayed release” of the token. 
13. What is an orphaned frame? 
14. Which station removes an orphaned or a corrupted frame? 
15. How does a ring network recover from the loss of a token? 
16. What is a “claim token”? Who releases a claim token on the ring? Why? 
17. Which data encoding scheme is used for IEEE 802.5 token rings? 18. Compare and contrast a token ring network with an Ethernet.

Chapter 3
1. What is a bridge? What are its functions on a local area network? 
2. How does a bridge differ from a hub? At which layer of ISO-OSI protocol layers a bridge operate? 
3. What are the advantages of a bridge over a hub? 
4. How does a bridge learn about hosts on a LAN? 
5. What type of frames a bridge always forward? 
6. What happens when there is a cycle in a bridged LAN? 
7. How the cycle problem in a bridged network is solved? 
8. Describe distributed spanning tree algorithm. 
9. What happens when the root bridge in the spanning tree fails? 
10. List some limitations of bridges 
11. Why a bridged network is not a good solution for a large network? 
12. Exercise problems 1, 2, 3, 4, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.

