
Christopher Carlisle
COSC 4328 LAB 1
Hours: 21 hours

Problems: The math held me up for the longest time. After a ton, I mean a 
	  ton of discussions with various people, including yourself. I 
	  found that multiplying the length of the line times the cosine
	  the degree of the line off of the x axis in radians. You then 
	  add the x value of the previous point. The same holds true for
	  the y axis. Instead of cosine you use the sine of the radians.
	  The degree is still based off of the x axis though. After I 
	  found that formula the program was pretty easy. Just took a bit
	  of thinking.

Testing: All of my testing was trial and error from the beginning.

Solution: I started with with the Sierpinski gasket and removed the
	  function that split the triangles. I then changed GL_TRIANGLES
	  to GL_LINES. Next I send in a line segment, number of degrees
	  off of the x axis it should be, and the number of iterations
	  left. Next I find the length of the line, convert degrees into
	  radians. I convert the degrees for the original line, the line
	  for the turn -60 degrees and then a turn back another +60 degrees
	  I then do the math that I described above to find the new x & y
	  coordinates for each point. Then each line segment is sent
	  recursively. If m is equal to zero then it sends that line 
	  segment to be drawn. The extras that I added was some color
	  to each line. The ability to move the snowflakes using the 
	  arrow keys or W.A.S.D. keys. To reset the position of the 
	  snowflakes you press the spacebar.  When you left click 
	  the mouse it starts/stops the snowflakes spinning on the
	  x=y axis. Any number key will change the snowflakes to that
	  number of iterations. If you want to reset to the number of
	  iterations that you started the program with you can hit 'o' to
	  do so. You can also use the + or - to increment or decrement 
	  through each level of the snowflake. 'Q' will quit the program.
	  Another extra that I added was a right-click menu that will clear
	  the screen, redraw the screen, or quit the program. There is also
	  a submenu to start or stop the spinning of the snowflakes. 
	  Another extra that I did was added a function to allow the window
	  to be reshaped and not distort the snowflakes. My last extra was
	  allowing the number of iterations to be entered from the command
	  line or if they don't enter an argument a default value of 0 will
	  be used so that there is no segmentation fault. Also, if a 
	  negative number or a number greater than 9 is used then it will
	  use 0. I have an upper limit of 9 iterations because there is 
	  no change visible.
Sources: I used the skeleton file on the assignment page to learn how to 
	 spin the snowflakes and how to reshape the window. I used the 
	 books website to learn how to make the menus. I learned how to do
	 interaction from the Interaction slides before they were presented
	 in class.
